[Music]
[Applause]
Today on Prior, I'm joined by Zach Dell,
the founder and CEO of Bass Power. Bass
just announced a $1 billion fund raise
from folks like Addition, Thrive, Andre,
Horitz, Lighteed, Altimter, Valor, and
myself. Zach previously was at
Blackstone working in different private
equity and Thrive doing investments in
various AI and software companies. uh
very excited to talk to him today about
not only his company but also more
broadly about the energy industry and
how energy is an input into literally
everything that we do and consume.
That's AI data centers. That's the
pencil you're using to write. That's
your computer. That's mining. That's
basically everything in the world.
Energy is a major input. So very excited
to talk with Zach today. Zack, thank you
so much for joining me today. No prior.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Energy is an input into everything in
the world that's produced, right? It
drives data centers. It drives electric
cars, but it also drives all of
manufacturing. It drives the internet.
It drives basically every aspect of our
lives. And it's a key cost input into
everything. So if you have very cheap
energy, everything else becomes
dramatically cheaper. And that opens up
entirely new spheres. You've been
working on base energy, excuse me, base
power for a couple years now. Can you
tell me more about how you landed on
what you're doing and what base actually
does?
>> Yeah, our mission is to lower the cost
of electricity for all. And we think
that is the most powerful thing we can
do to promote human prosperity. So to
create a world of energy abundance where
power is less expensive and more
reliable. So I got here by way of of
finance world. So I started my career at
Blackstone. I was on the private equity
team there. I spent a couple years at
Thrive Capital investing in technology
companies and then left Thrive
ultimately to start the company with my
co-founder Justin. And I think at those
firms, I was able to see a lot of the
industry, the value chain of of energy
of different kinds of technologies like
solar and storage and see this kind of
paradigm shift unfolding where if you
look at the last five decades of energy,
it's really been defined by coal and
then natural gas. And it it seems pretty
clear now that based on where the cost
curves are going, the next five decades
of energy are going to be defined by
solar and storage. And there's really no
energy technology platform company built
around that thesis. And so that is
really the the the kind of vision, the
idea around which we started the company
a couple years ago.
>> Okay. And you just closed literally a
billion dollars in new financing, which
I think brings your total overtime to
1.3 billion. What is that money going to
go to? What products do you provide?
What services? Like what what are you
currently doing? Yeah. So the capital
really is going to accelerate our
vertical integration which allows us to
ultimately lower costs for consumers. So
our strategy at the highest level is to
develop a compounding cost advantage
through vertical integration. So we
design batteries, we make them like
literally manufacture them, we install
them, own them, operate them, and we
sell power directly to homeowners. So to
answer your second question
specifically, when you sign up with
Bass, we become your electricity
provider. So today we're only available
in Texas. We're now we we sell power to
deregulated customers who can choose
their electricity provider and then we
do sell our technology to the regulated
utilities in Texas and then they offer
our services to their customers. So when
you sign up with Bass, we install our
battery on your home. When the grid's up
and running, we use that battery to
serve the grid. When the grid goes down,
you get that battery to back up your
home. And we're able to save our
customers on the order of 10 to 20% a
month on their electricity. So as we
invest further, as we build new
generations of the technology, our costs
will go down, our returns will go up.
We'll be able to share those returns, so
to speak, with the customer in the form
of lower and lower prices, driving the
price of of the electron down, driving
the availability or the reliability of
the electron up, which is really our
mission.
>> And so you basically have these
batteries you install in people's homes.
It's a sort of smart battery, so it can
interact with other batteries across the
network and it basically responds to
different power availability and
fluctuations and allows you to then make
money off of that customer.
>> Yeah. Another way to think about it is
we're building the world's largest
distributed power plant, right? So, we
install these energy assets all over the
grid and we use software to connect them
effectively and bid them into the market
intelligently and we use all the income
that we generate from that to drive down
cost for our customers.
>> How did you decide to work on this
problem in particular? like you had a
great vantage point working at
Blackstone and private equity which is a
generalist team at Thrive who've done
investments in companies like OpenAI and
Stripe and others and so you've seen
like a a wide swath of the world between
those experiences. What honed you in on
energy and this particular
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I mean I I
first got really fascinated with energy
in college and I actually worked on a
project uh in the energy space there and
actually worked on a number of projects.
One in particular was to develop a solar
farm and uh put panels in the ground and
sell the power back to the local utility
and do it in this very kind of
financially engineering oriented way.
And so I'd been studying the energy
value chain so to speak from a finance
perspective for a long time. And then I
think at Thrive I was exposed to this
pattern match of companies that were
going after big incumbent dominated
industries where the leader in the space
was not technology focused engineering
led or R&D driven and it happened in
autos with Tesla. It happened in
aerospace with SpaceX. It happened in
defense with Anderil and it wasn't being
done in energy. And turns out energy is
the biggest industry of of all of those
and it's the most important. And so I
was really inspired to go build that
modern power company of the electric era
engineering led technology focused R&D
driven and what I think is the largest
and most interesting category in the
economy.
>> Mhm. And as part of that you had to
build a very multi-disiplinary team. You
have people working on hardware you have
people working on mechanical engineering
on software on a variety of things. What
was the founding team like and how big
are you now? What sorts of people? Yeah,
it's uh this business is is a complex
coordination problem. We have to be a
lot good at a lot of things at the same
time. And so the, you know, the the way
to buy down execution risk, so to speak,
is to build a world-class team of people
across a bunch of different domains. So
my, you know, if you look at myself and
my co-founder, we have very different
skill sets, right? Justin is very
operational, technical. He led
manufacturing at SpaceX. He led
manufacturing at Anderrell and our first
hire, Jared Green, our head of software,
led the laser topology team at
Starlinks, the team that built the mesh
that connects all the satellites in
space. Not only is he a world-class
software engineer, but he understands
firmware and mechanical engineering and
power electronics. And our next couple
hires, you know, Cole Jones, our head of
growth, who ran go to market at
Starlink, Dana Paz, our head of
deployments, who led manufacturing
engineering at Anderell, and some other
early team members who, you know,
Suzanne Deng, who ran procurement at
SpaceX for 10 years, our head of supply
chain, Andy Ross, our head of
manufacturing, who led Model 3 battery
manufacturing at Tesla, Dino Saserites,
our head of hardware, who led Power Wall
engineering at Tesla and uh worked on
the design of the Power Wall 3. So we've
been able to pull together an incredible
group of people with domain expertise
across all these different functions and
I think one of the really special things
is that if you think about those five
six leaders of the company like all of
them were part of our first 10 hires
right and so as we went from 10 to now
250 people to answer your other question
the culture of the company is really
defined by those core leaders and those
people who are now leading teams they
were once the IC they were doing all the
IC work and now those leaders are still
doing IC work. I still do IC work every
day. So does Justin as you know. And so
it's a big part of our culture to kind
of lead from the front.
>> And we able to pull together a really
incredible team of
>> sounds like a amazing mix. Are there
specific areas that you're hiring for
right now or looking for key talent in?
>> Yeah. So as part of our announcement
kind of the big theme here is join the
charge, right? Is a call to action to
the most talented engineers, operators,
and creatives in the world to come join
us on what we think is the most
interesting, exciting, and important
mission out there in technology right
now. And so we're really hiring across
all teams. software, hardware, finance,
go to market, business development,
regulatory policy, uh deployments
engineering, manufacturing engineering,
you know, specifically some areas where
we're really focused right now are
firmware, power, electronics, uh
mechanical engineering, you know, design
engineering, uh so all kinds of software
engineering, basically everything from,
you know, very low-level firmware to,
you know, front end to backend and cloud
engineering and everything in between.
So, um, you know, right right now, as
you as you noted, you know, we've we've
raised, uh, you know, 1.3 billion in the
last 18 or so months. We've got more
demand than we can serve. We're standing
up our first factory in Austin to
produce our product at at really large
scale. And really, the constraint is
great talent. Um, and so, you know, we
want to put the word out there that
we're open for business and we we want
to bring uh more great people down to
Austin to join our team.
>> How did you inspire such um heavyweights
to join you to act as IC's early on?
Because often I think founders struggle
with both what's the seniority of people
to hire as well as how to convince
somebody who's actually led a major part
of SpaceX or Anderell or one of these
core companies that are you know still
growing like crazy themselves.
>> How do you convince people like that to
join you so early?
>> I think it's pretty obvious that the
best people want to work on the hardest
problems and the biggest most important
missions right like very capable people
want an opportunity to put a dent in the
universe and what we are going after
impacts the whole planet. It impacts
industry. It impacts homeowners. It's
very visceral. People think about, you
know, well, my power bill has been going
up, you know, every year the last 10
years, and my power outages are becoming
more frequent than they've ever been.
Like, this is a problem that actually
needs solving. Um, and then look, I I
think the best people really largely are
or most people are looking for three
things. One is they want to do they want
to have fun at work. They want to do
interesting work. They want to work with
smart people that are nice to be around.
They want to be pushed. They want to be
challenged. Number two is just a massive
kind of never- ending list of hard
problems. I think you see a companies,
you know, hire a bunch of really really
great people, come up with a bunch of
really awesome things and then over time
they kind of struggle to retain the top
talent as the problems become less and
less interesting. If you peak under the
hood at base, which you have uh you know
with the best of them, you'll see that
the list of hard problems to solve is
really mind-blowing. Um and we kind of
unlock the ability to solve new problems
as we enter new markets and release new
products. And uh the energy space is big
and it's complicated. It's hairy. So
this massive bucket of hard problem to
solve. And then look, I think the third
is economic upside, right? You know,
we're going after what we think can be
one of the largest, you know,
opportunities in the economy, one of the
biggest companies in the world. And you
know, if we're successful, you know,
it's going to it's going to be very big.
And so there's a really exciting upside
case there uh for top talent. So as we
were discussing earlier, energy is one
of the most important markets for
humanity or most important industries
because it drives everything else and it
drives the cost of everything from AI to
the car you're driving to the pencil
that you use to write etc because it's
an input into everything.
>> You know projections that we were
discussing earlier said that the demand
for energy may be going from a 2%
compounded annual growth rate a year to
closer to 10%. And so the question is
how do we actually fill the supply side
of that? where does all this new
production come from to make sure that
those needs are met? Yeah.
>> Um a do you think those projections are
correct and b how do you think about how
we solve for that?
>> I do think directionally the demand
projections are correct and I and I
think that or or actually uh potentially
understated. Uh I think there's a
massive amount of electricity demanded
coming. Uh now how do we serve it is the
question. You'll hear people talk all
the time about oh we're running out of
energy and we have no energy. That's not
really true. We're not using the energy
that we have in the most effective way
possible. Uh and you know another way to
think about it is you know the US grid
kind of max peak is somewhere on the
order of 700 gawatts but average average
demand across country is closer to like
300 gawatt right so we've got another 3
400 gawatts uh you know up to up to 700
gawatts if you believe that you know
that peak is going to grow to a terowatt
of latent capacity and you know the way
to access that capacity is by
timeshifting electricity right using
batteries and software and so you know
we think that our technology layer is
going to unlock a bunch of latent
capacity on on the grid help us meet
that demand but we will also have to
build more generation right and there's
tons of smart people and interesting
companies that are working on
>> what do you think are the most promising
aspects of generation
>> so I mean I think we've seen a lot of
this progress happen in solar right the
solar cost curves have been uh you know
aggressive to say the least and they
they've played out right and now the
>> largely been driven by Chinese subsidies
because I know the Chinese government
subsidized a lot of very early solar
production
>> it's been it's been demand curve takes
over
>> yeah it's been driven by capex a lot of
the capex has been subsidized by the
Chinese government through Chinese
companies. A lot of capex has come from
US companies and companies in Europe.
And so, uh, it's been driven by capex. I
think, you know, solar will continue to
get cheaper to deploy. Batteries will
continue to get cheaper to deploy.
>> And I think, uh, Texas is now the
biggest deployer of solar. Is that
correct?
>> Solar and wind.
>> And wind. And, um, it's interesting
because I was looking at these cost
curves or projections. And it looks like
solar is now a couple years ahead of
where people thought it was from a
deployment perspective. Do you know what
percentage of the US market is now solar
in terms of actual energy production?
>> Um, it varies a lot by state. Texas is
about 20% right now in the fuel mix. Um,
and it's on the higher end. Uh, I think
California is higher closer to 30 and
you have states like New Mexico, Nevada,
Utah, Arizona that are that are up in
that range. And then I mean if I
>> pointed out to Sorry, go ahead.
>> Well, if you look at the map of the US
and you map solar penetration as a
percentage of of fuel mix, it pretty
closely maps like where the sun is,
right? So like a ton of solar in the sun
belt and you don't have a ton of solar
in parts of the country where sun is
less prevalent. Now, as the cost to
land, solar, and storage on the grid
goes down, I think you'll we'll kind of
turn on, so to speak, other geographies
where solar used to not make sense, and
now it does make sense, but there's tons
of investment going into other forms of
generation. Nuclear obviously has been a
topic of conversation across the
country, and I think there's a lot of
great work happening there, but right
now it's too expensive.
>> Do you think it will credibly take off?
Because, you know, I looked into the
cost structure for nuclear before, and
there was two or three drivers. Uh, one
is honestly just environmental delays
and the cost of debt as you get delayed.
And so you have these big project
financing things that you raise money
for and then if you're delayed a couple
years, the costs go up so dramatically
that it makes it an uneconomical
project. And because people are so used
to these delays, they always build giant
projects cuz we're like, if we're going
to take the hit, we may as well take the
the hit big.
>> People are now moving towards these
smaller, more modular reactor systems.
Do you think that will actually credibly
take off? Because solar was never an
issue of safety. I mean, excuse me,
nuclear was never an issue of safety. It
was never an issue of some aspects of
cost. I mean again it was it was almost
like these imposed delays through
environmental lobby or nimism or other
things that often seem manufactured. But
do you think it's kind of dead in the
water going forward?
>> I don't think it's dead in the water. I
I hope it takes off. I think it has to
get a lot cheaper and it has to get a
lot faster. My opinion is that the rate
of solar deployment will go up so fast
as the costs continue to go down that it
it might just not matter that we'll have
so it'll be so easy and low cost to
deploy solar and storage that uh the
economics of building nuclear reactors
just won't make sense. And is storage
really the core component of it?
>> Yeah, because I mean you have to you
know the sun is only shining so many
hours of the day, right? So you need uh
you need storage to to
>> and that's because you can't transmit
like long distances on the grid, right?
And so I think
>> well you can but there's transmission
costs, right? And so what matters is the
landed cost of the electron, right? And
so solar and storage is the way that you
get that landed cost down. Uh and I hope
that we're able to come up with
breakthroughs in nuclear to drive down
the landed cost of a nuclear generated
electron, but right now we're not uh in
a world where it's really competitive
with solar. But you know at base like we
are fans of all kinds of energy
generation right we're really more
competitive so to speak with poles and
wires than we are with solar wind
nuclear geothermal hydroelectric etc.
Batteries move energy through time right
poles and wires move energy through
space. If you're generating all your
electrons via a nuclear reactor you
still need to move that power right
because unless you have reactors
everywhere in everyone's backyard which
you know I don't think is all that
likely you have to have a lot of these
reactors everywhere. You need to move
the power. You have to match up the
generation of the power with the, you
know, the supply with the demand, right?
And so we think having storage demand
side really helps you smooth.
>> So basically really moving from a
centralized grid to a distributed grid.
Correct. And that's the core insight of
what you all are doing. And to your
point, solar is a best way to create
that accord insight for energy
generation in general.
>> That's right. Yeah. And you'll see us
over time come out with new products
that are distributed in manner
technology defined that help us lower
the cost of and and increase the
reliability of energy. If you look at a
lot of the um things that people talk
about as things that open up with um
lower energy or open up entirely new
markets, I mean, one is just AI and data
centers where there's massive buildouts.
We're going to need energy for them.
There's things like desalination like
you should be able to produce water
anywhere where there's like um an ocean
or anything else, green hydrogen,
electrolysis. Uh I mean
>> the cost per megawatt per kilowatt is a
is an input to all these processes. And
as we drive that cost down, you know,
take desolization for example. Right now
it's kind of an emergency use case every
once in a while thing. If it was five
times cheaper, like this would be
something that we did all the time in
lots of places. Now again,
geographically geographically defined.
Where do you have salt water? Where
where do you not have it? But you know,
we'll see a massive boom in large scale
infrastructure technology projects as we
drive down the cost of electricity and
you know, boring stuff too like heavy
industry and uh building you know,
refineries and uh things like that that
really matter that keep the economy
going. We'll just see more of it as we
drive down the cost of electricity.
>> And do you think those will all
centralize next to cheap energy or cheap
power?
>> It's nuance. I think at the limit, yes,
more of of the the highly capital
intense energy dependent uh use cases
will go towards the lowcost energy parts
of the world. And I do think you'll have
energy hubs where uh there's you know a
ton of highly available lowcost power
and a bunch of heavy industry goes
there. But as you know there's nuance in
all of these things and there's
technology
>> you know there's there's geographic
implications here where it's like well
you need x y or z in you know
>> in x y or z place because of this other
reason that does not have to do with the
cost of electricity. So I think largely
it will concentrate to lowc cost
electricity places but
>> what do you view as the lowc cost
electricity places of the globe today
>> right now unfortunately it's China and
we got to make
>> is that because of solar is that because
of nuclear
>> it's supply and demand it's because they
built out a massive amount of supply and
it's all the above right they built they
built nuclear reactors they built solar
farms they built wind farms they built a
ton of battery storage they have you
know tons of high voltage transmission
and so our hope and and you really what
we're working on is kind of stimulating
this this build out in the US I think
Texas will be a lowcost place to build
energy technology technology build all
technology due to the cost of energy and
I think other parts of the country will
pop up as energy hubs uh as different
states and policy makers and regulators
really embrace that.
>> Okay. And then one thing that I've heard
um some people talking about
increasingly is if you look at the cost
of energy and then you look at the
overlay of regulation especially
relative to AI is suggested a lot of the
big at least training center buildouts
where you take a bunch of data and you
train a new model on it are going to
basically happen in the US and the Gulf.
They're not going to happen in Europe
because of rising energy costs as well
as because of um some of the extra
regulations. It's not going to happen in
parts of Asia because of security or
other concerns. Do you think that's a
correct view of the future in terms of
most AI training is just going to be in
two parts of the world and they're going
to be effectively a US domain?
>> I think the highly energyintens
workloads will converge around the
lowcost electricity places. You'll see a
lot of that go to the Gulf. You'll see a
lot of that go to Texas. And you're
seeing that now, right, with Stargate
and Abalene and all the big projects
that have been announced in the Gulf. So
I I I do think that that is likely to
continue playing out in that way.
>> Yeah. And then what do you think are the
biggest drivers of future energy
adoption from a technology perspective?
And then I'd love to get your
perspective from a regulatory
perspective.
>> Um you mean what will drive more
buildout of energy technology
>> like what's lacking today or what
technology is most promising or what do
you think are the most interesting
shifts happening from?
>> Yeah, I mean what you're doing my book a
little bit today. I think I think
batteries are are the key. batteries are
the unlock to the energy transition and
will continue to drive out cost uh both
the hard cost and the soft cost right I
mean you have the cells and the modules
and the power electronics and uh the bus
bars and the current collectors and all
the things that go into a battery but
then you have the EPC you know getting
the battery in the ground the logistics
the transportation uh all the software
that goes on top of it um monetizing
these assets and there's costs to attack
in all parts of the stack um and so I
think that u battery storage will be uh
will define the next chapter of the
energy transition and I'm I'm super
hopeful that new kinds of generation
will break through as super economic and
I I hope that breakthroughs happen in
nuclear and you know there's some
interesting companies working on
geothermal and hydroelectric and I think
that has a lot of promise but you know
as we discussed energy is a
geographically defined problem and in
the you know parts of the Pacific
Northwest and in Canada where there's
tons of hydro makes a ton of sense to to
use that as a generation type in you
know in Texas you don't have a lot of
that but you do have a bunch of wind and
a bunch of solar and so I think it'll
look a little different in different
parts of the world but really uh you
Another way to think about this is like
look at the cost of an electron, right?
Basically anywhere across the country,
the cost is really made up of two
components. One is the cost to make the
electron. The second is the cost to move
the electron. The cost to make the
electron has gone down really
significantly over the last 20 years,
largely driven by the build out of
solar. But the cost to move the electron
has gone up very significantly because
our infrastructure is aging and
utilities have this kind of perverse
incentive structure to build instead of
innovate and so costs are going up. you
know, the generation technologies,
solar, wind, nuclear, hydro, geothermal,
they're really attacking the cost to
make it. We're really attacking the cost
to move it. This one's going down
already. This one is going up. So, I
think most of the opportunity is to uh
to innovate and to drive out cost, which
really all that matters in the commodity
industry, which energy is, is uh you
know, opportunities around transmission,
distribution, and power and driving
those costs down.
>> Could you talk more about the incentives
that exist for utilities and why uh the
costs of transmission are actually going
up versus down?
>> Yeah. Um, utilities are are regulated
monopolies. Uh, and the way that the
regulated entities work is that they
earn a a rate of return, a predefined
rate of return on the capex that they
invest in.
>> And that's set through some regulation,
right?
>> Yes. By the public utility commission
typically uh in in in the given state.
And so, and this is kind of all governed
by uh FK, the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission outside of Texas, which is
not governed by FK. So, it's some
complexity.
>> What is the reasoning behind regulating
the rate of return that a utility can
have? Like why don't they want it to be
higher? Well, they they do want it to be
higher and they often argue that it it
should be higher. I mean, there's a big
history lesson here, which is kind of
how the grid was built on the early
1900s and then in World War II and the
Feds basically ask all the the grids,
the Eastern Interconnect and the Western
Interconnect in Texas to to connect and
and Texas basically said, "No, we're
going to have our own grid." And then,
you know, Urkott was born in the 70s and
then the late 90s or early 2000s, Bush
and and Rick Perry and and uh um some
some other cowboys in Texas basically
said, "Hey, we're going to have a
competitive industry. We're going to
have a competitive market. We're going
to deregulate this thing. We're going to
invite competition. We're going to open
it up to price signals. That's why you
saw so much investment in the early
>> 20 that happened in Texas specifically.
Yep.
>> Uh why didn't that happen in the rest of
the country?
>> Well, it started in California actually
and then Enron happened. Uh and that
that put an end to that pretty quickly,
but Texas carried the torch.
>> Uh and so you had a massive buildout in
of solar and wind in Texas in the early
2000s and I think that was really
constructive for the industry and you
know, will that happen in other parts of
the country? I I don't know. I think
there is uh reason for for regulation in
some parts of this and you know if you
have neighborhoods like it doesn't make
sense to have seven different power
lines running through the neighborhood
right it's like you should have shared
infrastructure to some extent but it's
an old highly regul I mean it's really
the only part of the economy that is
still regulated in this way right if you
look at trucking or airlines or telecom
you know all these industries
deregulated over the last 50 years
except electricity
>> what do you think prevented it
>> I think there's some just like market
fundamentals that we talked about around
like you know don't have more than one
wire home kind of thing. Partially just
the difficulty of building out this
infrastructure. I mean the grid is the
most complicated engineering machine
ever built. It's it is a wild wild
system. Uh and maintaining it and
expanding it is is really hard and so I
I can see why it makes sense to do that
in a kind of concentrated or at least
you know regulated centralized way. But
there are other parts of the country
that have some amount of retail
competition in the northn northeast. um
and you are seeing some you know more
more innovation happen in those areas.
>> What do you think are the regulations
that are most um prohibitive in terms of
our energy future? So if you're able to
remove two or three regulations, what
would they
>> I think uh we got to make it way easier
to permit building energy technology.
Like we need, you know, we talked about
demand going up, we need more supply,
right? Well, what's holding back supply?
A lot of it is permanent. Just like
interconnection cues need to go be be
shorter, permits need to go faster. That
that I think is one of the biggest
things. And then the broader point I'd
make is exposure to price signals,
right? more competition. Um, you know,
markets are reasonably efficient and
giving market participants access to
price signals such that they can, you
know, monetize flexibility. And really
what I mean by that is if you're able to
move when you consume power around when
power is available, you should be
compensated for that, right? And and
that's not really the way the industry
works today. And I think it it it it
hopefully will move in that direction.
>> What What are you most optimistic for or
thinking about uh from a positive
perspective for the energy future this
coming? I'm a pretty optimistic guy by
nature and I I really am inspired by and
believe in kind of human ingenuity. You
know, over the last 50 years, the
electricity industry has not been uh the
place that the most talented engineers
and operators have gone, you know, out
of school or, you know, breaking into
their career. It's not like I'm going to
go work in electricity. I'm going to go
work at a utility. So, I have a ton of
optimism that comes from this idea that
the nation and our kind of really
talented young people will wake up to
the idea that this is an incredibly
important problem and we need to send
our best and brightest to go work on it.
And I hope a lot of them come work at
base, but I hope other companies get
started in this space to attract the
best and the brightest to come solve
these really hard engineering problems
in the category in in in the energy
space to help drive cost down and
reliability up. So I visited your office
a few times now and um one of the things
that really stood out to me is the
energy that you feel as no pun intended
as you sort of walk around everybody
seems very motivated, very driven, very
on it and it's kind of like a buzzy
space and culture. How did you guys was
that purposeful? Did that just happen
through the people that you hire? Like
how did you approach that?
>> A bit of both. I think culture largely
is is the people that you hire and those
people define kind of the early culture
and then you can is a bit of nature
nurture, right? You can kind of tend to
the culture and and make sure it it gets
better and moves in the direction you
want it. And so I'd say, you know, the
things that we really value as part of
our culture, you know, the first thing
that comes to mind is working with
urgency and focus, right? And I think
it's really easy to have urgency without
focus. Uh and companies often get
themselves into trouble tr trouble by
just like you know the whole 996 thing
and the like int like
>> yeah we do 996 we probably do more than
996 but we don't really talk about it in
that way and it's like just kind of
natural to how we operate but we have a
extreme focus and we ruthlessly
prioritize the most important things.
Everyone at the company knows what the
north stars of the business are. They
know how the thing they're working on
ladders up to the north stars. We talk
about our business very openly. So you
know as you've seen team has lunch and
dinner together. lunch, dinner, table
conversations are really about like our
long-term vision. Where are we going?
What kind of new things should we be
thinking about?
>> Um, and you know, you walk around the
office and the place looks like a Best
Buy because there's just TVs everywhere
as you've seen, right? Metrics
everywhere. All the stuff that matters
at the company is visible for everyone
to see.
>> And so that gives you a level of focus
where it's like if it's on a TV it must
matter and it's not on a TV it probably
doesn't matter, right? And that really
helps people prioritize. And then I
think you know we try to be an
organization that uh people yeah I say
the word organization that kind of makes
my skin crawl right like we try to be
small and lean and nimble but as a group
we we seek and give feedback right to
each other and we're really open with
each other and uh it's a very flat
structure you know I sit next to and
work with interns all the time and you
know there's not like a oh managers
manager manager kind of concept where uh
people are very open with each other um
and we really invest in young talent and
try to train them directly with like
very quick kind of open direct feedback
And uh that has helped a lot of us
including myself level up in a very
short amount of time. A lot of us are
young and largely inexperienced. And so
we learn from each other kind of in real
time. And I think you know we think
about our business as a as a competitive
endeavor, right? Like we are competitors
and we are here to win. And we frame a
lot of the stuff we're doing in terms of
competition and we're not afraid to say
that and we're very proud of that and I
think that's a very unique part of our
culture. Uh, and the last thing I'll say
is we like to have fun. Uh, and you
know, we like to laugh and smile and
high five and make jokes and you know,
we take our work very seriously, but we
don't take ourselves too seriously. And
I think people love being a part of
that. They want to have fun at work,
right? If you're going to be there, you
know, five, six, seven days a week, like
you better be having fun.
>> So, over the last 18 months, you've
raised uh 1.3 billion, I think 1 billion
just now that you're announcing. And it
was from a real who's list. It's Thrive,
Valor, Edition, Light Speed, Altimter,
uh, E16Z. I'm lucky enough to or me and
my firm are lucky enough to be involved
and I think the fact that you have this
private equity and investment background
means that you view the lens of
capitalization how you raise money for a
company very differently and that's not
only the traditional venture money which
you sell shares in the company in
exchange for cash but also using debt or
other more complex structures relative
to what you're doing. So I'd love to
hear more about how you think about
that.
>> Yeah, so we are in a highly capital
intensive industry and our ability to
access lowcost capital is a real
competitive advantage. said differently.
If you and I are building a thing to go
sell it to someone else and you have to
pay 10% interest on the capital to build
the thing and I only have to pay 5%
interest on the capital to build that
thing, I'm gonna have more money left
over, I can charge less for the product
and I can out compete you, right? So in
this endeavor, we have to figure out a
way to access really lowc cost capital
over time. But there are different kinds
of capital, right? So when we make
investments, we invest in operating
expenses, opex, which is the cost to run
the business day-to-day, pay the
engineers, pay the rent, buy the snacks,
that kind of thing. And then we have uh
capital expenditures, capex, which is
really the large investments we make in
batteries and inverters and
manufacturing lines and all the imports
to go into those things. on the on an
operating basis on the opex side, we
have a pretty clear path to operating
profitability and actually you know
near-term timeline uh because the
business you know generates a lot of
cash and revenue and our operating base
is low and we're quite efficient and so
we can that that part of the business
can be profitable quite quickly and then
on the capex side our ability to raise
and deploy lowc cost capital here is
just a massive massive competitive
advantage right so you know one thing
I've said to the team is like this
billion dollars is necessary but not
sufficient to achieve our mission you
know in the game that we're playing
which is to build a global energy
technology market leader. A billion
dollars is the ante to sit at the poker
table, right? We're competing against
the biggest and most well capitalized
companies on the planet. And so we have
to run down that cost of capital curve
very quickly and raise billions of
dollars in a short timeline to be able
to compete with them. So over time as we
prove out the predictability of and
strength and kind of value of our cash
flows, we will be able to access those
lowerc cost pools of capital which are
typically the largest kind of pools of
capital in the world. The largest pools
have the lowest cost, right? And so as
we access those, we'll continue to
invest in capex while, you know, getting
to operating profitability uh on the
opex side and be in a position to really
control our destiny in the capital
markets.
>> Yeah, it's amazing. I think there's a
lot of businesses that people talk about
as having scale effects and the bigger
the scale, the more the economics of the
business get better, right? And so you
mentioned one example um steel making
has some aspects of this depending on
the model that you're doing. Payments
actually.
>> Yep.
>> Uh has this model. The more payments
that you have, the lower your
interchange fees go on the back end. And
so if you're Stripe or someone else, you
get a real advantage from having real
scale. So it's interesting to see how
you folks are really uh using that to
your advantage. And
>> totally I think you see this mostly in
commodity industries where cost is is
the source of competitive advantage,
right? And what we sell is a commodity.
Electricity, there's no sexy electrons,
right? Electricity is a commodity.
>> I think so.
>> Right. It depends on who you ask,
>> right? So um our whole strategy is built
around driving the cost down for the
customer. And as we get to more scale,
our cost structure goes down, right?
Scale economies. As our cost structure
goes down, our returns go up. As our
returns go up, we pass those returns
onto the customer in the form of lower
prices. When you have lower prices and
you're selling commodity product, you
get more demand, you get more scale, you
get more scale, your costs go down,
right? And that's the flywheel that you
create. And so, you know, why raise 1.3
billion in 18 months? Like, well,
because we need to get that flywheel
going really fast
>> because we got, you know, to compete
with these really large, well
capitalized companies. Now, we're doing
a ton of stuff with technology obviously
to come down the cost curve in a way
that they they can't. And that's really
how we win. That's the real advantage
then to your business is the technology
development and innovation versus just
the the money basis which is
>> 90% of the cost down comes from
technology and innovation and 10% comes
from cost of capital but you really you
want that 10% too and if you can't you
know like I said about the anti like if
you can't get the billion dollars and
you can't really go compete on a global
scale you're just not going to be
relevant.
>> Zach thanks so much for joining me no
prior.
>> Thank you for having me. Really enjoyed
it.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priers.com.